# Accessibility

When websites and web tools are properly designed and coded, people with disabilities can use them. However, currently many sites and tools are developed with accessibility barriers that make them difficult or impossible for some people to use.

Making the web accessible benefits individuals, businesses, and society. International web standards define what is needed for accessibility.

Web accessibility encompasses all disabilities that affect access to the Web, including:

- auditory
- cognitive
- neurological
- physical
- speech
- visual

Web accessibility also benefits people _without_ disabilities, for example:

- people using mobile phones, smart watches, smart TVs, and other devices with small screens, different input modes, etc.
- older people with changing abilities due to ageing
- people with “temporary disabilities” such as a broken arm or lost glasses
- people with “situational limitations” such as in bright sunlight or in an environment where they cannot listen to audio
- people using a slow Internet connection, or who have limited or expensive bandwidth

Distinguishable content is easier to see and hear. Such content includes:

- Color is not used as the only way of conveying information or identifying content
- Default foreground and background color combinations provide sufficient contrast
- When users resize text up to 400% or change text spacing, no information is lost
- Text reflows in small windows (“viewports”) and when users make the text larger
- Images of text are resizable, replaced with actual text, or avoided where possible
- Users can pause, stop, or adjust the volume of audio that is played on a website
- Background audio is low or can be turned off, to avoid interference or distraction

Meeting this requirement helps separate foreground from background, to make important information more distinguishable. This includes considerations for people who do not use assistive technologies and for people using assistive technologies who may observe interference from prominent audio or visual content in the background. For instance, many people with color blindness do not use any particular tools and rely on a proper design that provides sufficient color contrast between text and its surrounding background.
